PostHog vs Kubit (#6333)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-kubit.md

---
date: 2023-07-26
title: In depth: PostHog vs Kubit
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-kubit/posthog-vs-kubit.jpg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - joe-martin
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
    - Guides
---

> Kubit is a product analytics platform built for product teams. PostHog, on the other hand, is built primarily for engineers. In this article we’ll explore the differences between Kubit and PostHog in detail, but it can helpful to first discuss the different needs of engineers and product teams:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubit is a product analytics platform built for product teams. PostHog, on the other hand, is built primarily for engineers. 

In this article we’ll explore the differences between Kubit and PostHog in detail, but it can helpful to first discuss the different needs of engineers and product teams:  
```

> - Product managers need tools which help them simply collect and analyze product data, so they can unearth user patterns. They also need to collaborate closely with other roles. 
> - Engineers and developers also need to collect and analyze data, but often want to run much more detailed analysis and crucially want to directly implement or test changes as a result of their discoveries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Product managers need tools which help them simply collect and analyze product data, so they can unearth user patterns. They also need to collaborate closely with other roles.
 
- Engineers and developers also need to collect and analyze data, but often want to run much more detailed analysis and crucially want to directly implement or test changes as a result of their discoveries.
```

> These differences explain why PostHog and Kubit have such different features even though they both include product analytics tooling. Kubit focuses on providing a simplified, no-code experience, while PostHog has a much broader suite of tools — feature flags, user surveys, A/B experimentation, and much more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These differences explain why PostHog and Kubit have such different features, even though they both include product analytics tooling. Kubit focuses on providing a simplified, no-code experience, while PostHog has a much broader suite of tools — feature flags, user surveys, A/B experimentation, and much more. 
```

> ### What about product-minded engineers?
>
> Increasingly, many organizations are hiring engineers with a product-orientated approach, called _product engineers_. PostHog is especially helpful for these types of roles and we’ve written at length about [what product engineering is, and why it matters](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer) — and [we even have a newsletter about it](/newsletter).

In this article we’ll explore these differences in more detail, and take a deep dive into the product analytics features of both. 

## How do PostHog and Kubit differ?

### PostHog does more than product analytics
Kubit is intended for product and data teams at large organizations. It therefore focuses solely on providing product analytics tools (and has an opaque pricing model that’s squarely aimed at enterprises), and that’s it.

> PostHog, on the other hand, offers far more than just product analytics and empowers engineers to collect feedback (with surveys), deploy changes (with feature flags), test ideas (with A/B testing) and gather more information (with session replays). In short, it’s just ridiculously more powerful. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog, on the other hand, offers far more than just product analytics and empowers engineers to collect feedback (with surveys), deploy changes (with feature flags), test ideas (with A/B testing), and gather more information (with session replays). In short, it’s just ridiculously more powerful. 
```

### PostHog can gather multiple types of data
Both Kubit and PostHog are built around the concept of _events_, which users define, track and analyze. An event can be performed, or not, and can have properties, or not. That’s about it. 

However, what if you want to analyze something which isn’t an event, like a feedback comment, or how long a user spent reading a page? With Kubit that’s not possible, but with PostHog it is. You can watch replays of actual user interactions with your product, issue surveys to collect feedback — or even use PostHog as a data warehouse to track other data. 

### PostHog is open source 

> At PostHog we aren’t just open source; we’re transparent by default. Everything from our [roadmap](/roadmap) to our [team profiles](/team) are available to the public. This means we’re constantly taking feedback on how to improve, as well as code contributions from our community that directly impact the product. Need an integration that doesn’t exist yet? You can build it yourself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At PostHog, we aren’t just open source – we’re transparent by default. Everything from our [roadmap](/roadmap) to our [team profiles](/team) are available to the public. This means we’re constantly taking feedback on how to improve, as well as code contributions from our community that directly impact the product. Need an integration that doesn’t exist yet? You can build it yourself. 
```

> Kubit, on the other hand, is _incredibly_ closed source — so the point that pricing information is publicly available, free trials require personal information, and the roadmap is non-existent. That’s not the way we like to work.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubit, on the other hand, is _incredibly_ closed source. There's no public pricing information, free trials require personal information, and the roadmap is non-existent. That’s not the way we like to work.  
```

## PostHog and Kubit feature comparison

> As explained above, PostHog offers a far greater suite of features than Kubit, which focuses solely on product analytics. In fact, PostHog’s suite of features is continually growing — check [the roadmap](/roadmap) to see what we’re working on next!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained above, PostHog offers wider selection of feature than Kubit, which focuses solely on product analytics.
```

We've already mentioned the roadmap and this sounds a bit too heavy-handed to me.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Categorize and define a list of events and properties</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> ### Should you use autocapture?
> 
> Autocapturing events is a controversial topic for data teams. The argument against it is that it introduces more noise and can introduce additional costs. The argument for it is that it collects more data for users to collaborate with, at greater consistency. 
>
> At PostHog, [we think it’s better to have more information](/blog/is-autocapture-still-bad), than less. We give users their first 1M events for free every month too, to negate the costs argument. But if you disagree, autocapture can be easily disabled. 

## Library support
PostHog supports a wide range of client and server libraries, but not all features are equally available across all of them. We recommend using PostHog's JavaScript snippet to enjoy all our features. See our [client library documentation](/docs/getting-started/install?tab=snippet) for more information.

> Kubit, on the other hand, claims to be a no-code product without any SDKs or libraries. The platform is closed source, so it’s impossible to verify how this works as [the documentation gives](https://docs.kubit.ai/docs) no information. Instead, Kubit says it only ‘talks directly to your data warehouse’.

Reviewer: I think we should tone down this language. Generally, these comparisons should be about facts, rather than our opinion on the solution. The reader can figure out for themselves what solution is better for them.

Author: I get that this is potentially a bit snarky, but it's 100% based on facts and isn't opinion. Same for the comment below: Contacted Sales, yet to hear back.

We could soften to the below, but anymore and we're starting to both omit a relevant weakness of the product and lose the opinionated tone we strive for elsewhere. 

```suggestion
Kubit, on the other hand, is a closed-source, no-code product and [the documentation](https://docs.kubit.ai/docs) doesn't offer information about SDKs or libraries. 
```

Reviewer: 1. RE: sales, it's an enterprise company. I imagine they triage incoming queries and respond to the ones that fir their our ICP. We do exactly the same. It also just feels sneaky digging them out on it.

2. RE: suggestion, now we're just omitting the fact they talk directly to your data warehouse. Surely the point is they don't have SDKs / libraries because their product is only built to work on top of an existing data warehouse?

</table>
</div>

> ### To cookie, or not to cookie?
>
> To ensure compliance with local privacy regulations, you may need to ask users for their permission to track them with cookies. PostHog has [tools to help you do that](/tutorials/react-cookie-banner), but if you’d rather not use cookies to track users then [you can do that too](/tutorials/cookieless-tracking). 

## Frequently asked questions

### How much should I expect to pay?

With Kubit, it’s impossible to estimate costs as pricing is not transparent and is tailored to each customer. At PostHog, [we strongly disagree with this approach](/blog/transparent-enterprise-pricing) and publish our pricing publicly.

For PostHog, we have [a guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs), and [a pricing calculator](/pricing) to help — but with a generous free tier and no up-front fees, it’s often easiest to just get started and see how much data you send through that way. 

### Is there a free trial?

With PostHog, you don’t need a free trial — it’s free to get started, with a generous monthly allowance of events, replays, and API calls. If you’re within this allowance, PostHog is free to use forever. 

> Kubit does offer a free trial, but you’ll need to submit your company information and wait for Kubit to respond with an invite to do so. We tried this ourselves, and have been waiting a week for an invite or someone to reach out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubit does offer a free trial, but you’ll need to submit your company information and wait for Kubit to respond with an invite to do so. 
```

See earlier comments

Author: Will commit this, but see response above

---

> date: 2023-07-26

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-07-29
```

> date: 2023-07-29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-07-28
```

> title: In depth: PostHog vs Kubit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: In-depth: PostHog vs Kubit
```

> title: In-depth: PostHog vs Kubit

Author: ```suggestion
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Kubit"
```
